
Fri, 13 Jun 2014 11:02:12 

# Agile, Scrum and Empirical Process

#Empirical Process



>This book presents a radically different approach to managing the systems
development process.  Scrum implements an empirical approach based in
process control theory.  The empirical approach reintroduces flexibility,
adaptability, and productivity into systems development.  I say
"reintroduces" because much of this has been lost of the last 20 years.



*from Agile Software Development with Scrum by Ken Schwaber and Mike Beedle
(page 1!)*



>empirical (adjective)

>Based on, concerned with, or verifiable by observation or experience
rather than theory or pure logic e.g. "they provided considerable empirical
evidence to support their argument"

*from [http://www.oxforddictionaries.com](http://www.oxforddictionaries.com
)*



Empirical process is fundamental to a Scrum and Agile approach, it is one
of the hardest concepts to get across to people who are new to Agile.


Why is it so hard? Because empirical process is a lot of hard work, and not
physical work.  Empirical requires a lot of thinking, discussion, trial,
and yes, unfortunately, error! When I work with a team – or with senior
stakeholders who are sponsoring an Agile transformation, they tend to look
to me and my Agile coaching colleagues to tell them *exactly* what they
need to do to make sure that their project is a success. Very often I am
asked, by management, and by members of the team "What's the best practice?
Or what is the *Company* way of doing this? Can you point us to some
documentation (or a 'toolkit') that tells us *exactly* what we need to do?"



And I always feel slightly bad, and somehow deficient when I say – "no."  There
isn't a book that tells you exactly how to do it.  There certainly isn't a
document that tells you what the way to do it that is specific to this
company is.  But the good news is that there is a framework that can, over
time give you answers to these questions for this particular project.



Scrum is explicitly not a methodology, it is a framework, an iterative
framework.  And the entire purpose of that framework is to discover through
actual experience – empirically – what the methodology should be for each
individual project.



Why do we have to do this?  Because so many things can be different on
different projects.  I'll list just a few here.



1)  Access to the business/client

In some organisations a member of the client organisation will sit with the
team and access to Subject Matter Experts - "SME's" who can answer detailed
questions on how the application should work and how the work is currently
done is easy to come by.  On other projects, the product owner is only
available for crucial Scrum meetings and access to subject matter experts
is the limiting factor on the speed of development.

2)  Demand

When is the software needed? Is there a deadline? Does the organisation
that you're writing this software have a "quiet period" and a "crazy
period" during the year, maybe even during the month? Does the software
need to be released yearly, monthly, weekly or daily?

3)  Capability of the team

Does the team have the right technical abilities to deliver the solution.  Do
they need outside help? Does learning the right technical skills have to be
explicitly part of the work of the project?

4)  Distribution of the team

Can the team all sit together? Or are they on several sites (or as with one
project I worked on, working from home in cities across Europe).

5)  The nature of the technical solution

Is this a "greenfield" solution or is it an update to an existing system,
or is it a set of modifications to a third party application.

6)  The nature of the data

With some datasets, a small sub-sample is never going to be anything like
the "real thing".

7)  The security and sensitivity of the solution

How do you release the software?  And to which environment? What kind of
testing is going to go on after its released?



When you've understood these features of your project – and probably a
dozen more that might only be important to your particular project, and
also understood how these features need to change your project approach,
you will have yourself an empirical process.
