# An Investigation into Some and All

So I had the privilege of doing some introductory Agile training yesterday with some graduates.  At the end of the session I just had some time to try out a new exercise that I'm prototyping.

I get people in pairs to write the following words and phrases on post-its (when I'm comfortable that I've got the words right, or more right, I'll print them on cards).

	Vague
	All
	Precise
	Incomplete
	Some
	Total
	Partial
	Matching
	To-Budget
	On-time
	Different
	Differing
	Same
	Secure
	Over-Budget
	Complete
	Inaccurate
	Accurate
	Late
	Clear
	Insecure
	Imprecise

Then I asked the groups to sort them into two groups - to sort the words that go together.

This results in something very like these two groupings
	 
	All						Some  
	Complete				Incomplete  
	Clear					Vague  
	Same					Different  
	On-time					Late  
	Total					Partial  
	Precise					Imprecise  
	To-Budget				Over-Budget  
	Matching				Differing  
	Accurate				Inaccurate  
	Secure					Insecure  

Then I asked them to look at the Agile manifesto and a description of Scrum and see which group it would go in. Sadly that instruction was a bit vague and the grads struggled with it. I need to work on that part of the exercise - maybe by printing extracts from the Agile manifesto and the Scrum Guide on a separate set of cards.

Finally I asked them to read each of these lists, which list seems more attractive? Do I even have to ask? Surely everyone likes the list on the left more than the list on the right? Right? 

Why? What do you feel as you read the list on the left? When I read the list on the left I feel lighter, happier, more relaxed, more open.

What you do you feel when you read the list on the right? When I read the list on the right I can feel the muscles in my shoulders that are somehow connected to reponsibilty starting to knot.  I can feel a frown appearing on my face. As I read over "different, late, partial" I can feed my head and shoulders lowering.

And this is a really big problem if you work have anything to do with the management of projects. Why? Well because project management is about taking ideas and making them into reality. Ideas are almost always expressed using the kinds of words in the left-hand column. But reality is about dealing with the words in the right-hand column. It's even weirder than that. Because in general, things that make money for an organisation will probably be, at least at first, best described by the words on the left.

I don't have many answers for this at the moment.  I'm just starting to get my hear around the problem. But my thinking is that if we could possibly come up with a better way of talking about partial, imperfect, vague but *valuable* things.  That might be a help. But maybe language isn't enough. Maybe we need practices, rehtoric and culture that celebrates, relishes and values these things. I dunno, I've started to write about it in my book ["Delivering the Impossible"](http://www.mumbly.co.uk/newblog/BookVersion0.1Ch1.htm).  But it's still somewhat vague and partial.  Notice how unattractive that sounds? 
