
Mon, 21 Jul 2014 08:57:28 

# Book Review - Wil Wheaton: Just a Geek

Take a minute and try to remember being sixteen. Are you (the you of
now) totally happy with whom you were then?  Would you trust the
sixteen-year-old you to make all the major decisions about your life
and career? Ok, let's just ask one final question, what if whatever
that sixteen-year-old you was doing was the *highlight* of your
career? How would the you-of-now deal with that?



I'm re-reading ["Just a Geek" by Wil
Wheaton](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596007683.do).  Yes,
that's right, *re-reading*.  I don't know enough about Star Trek to
know why a lot of people don't like Wil Wheaton.  I think it's
something to do with the character that he played when *he* was
sixteen in Start Trek - Next Generation.



I'm re-reading the book because I want to review it [1].  And I've
been writing book reviews (well, I wrote *one*) and I wanted to go
back and try to write a book review of "Just a Geek".  I think I like
the book for a couple of reasons.  Firstly, I identify with not having
enough work. And with the constant wrestling with yourself that that
involves.



In June 2007, I decided to go self-employed. Or self-unemployed as
I've called it since I got another proper job - which was two and a
half years later.



I distinctly remember the look on my boss's face when I told her -
which was actually, also the point when I made the decision (yes, I
know, this speaks volumes for the quality of my decision making).
She'd already started her speech "You know Mark, we don't really have
any more money to keep you on as a Research Associate, but if you
applied for a PhD then we could find you some money for that, of
course it wouldn't be as much but. . ."



I hope I wasn't too rude when I cut her off "You know what?  Don't
bother.  I'm going to try something else." She did look genuinely
surprised, and I still treasure that look.



So, Wil Wheaton and I have that in common.  We both made ourselves
self-unemployed and that didn't work out quite as we expected
(although, in my case, I'm really not sure what I *was* expecting).
And Will was a lot braver than me, Wil made this choice to be
self-unemployed when he was 18 and also part of one the biggest
cultural phenomena of the twentieth century.



It's a cheesy conceit, but Wheaton gives his self-doubt a name, and
not a slick, easy to say name "Prove to Everyone That Quitting Star
Trek Wasn't a Mistake".  Where I differ with Wil Wheaton is that I
never had that voice.  There was no voice inside me that *ever*
wondered if it might have been a good idea to stay in academia.  There
were other voices though "What The Fuck Are You Doing?", "What Were
You thinking?" and "Please Help Me, I Have No Idea What I'm Doing."



But there's something else that Wil Wheaton and I have in common - we
both have a serious case of arrested development.  But then again,
there's also an important way in which this is very unremarkable
because Wil and I share this with the rest of the human race.



I saw an interview with the great philosopher "Sting" in which he said
that the problem with being famous was that you stopped growing up at
the exact point that you become famous. And let's face it, the track
record for child-stars isn't a pretty one. Britney Spears, Justin
Bieber, Lindsay Lohan it's easy to generate a pretty long-list of
literal and figurative car-crash lives without even taking the trouble
to look up [Gary Coleman](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gary_Coleman#).



What Wheaton manages to do in "Just a Geek" is go over the wreckage of
his own arrested development and make it a redeeming feature. And he
does this by finding a voice. He pioneers a certain kind of blog which
combines techno-geekdom  - enthusiasm and understanding of technology
- with sci-fi/fantasy geekdom - an enthusiasm for Star Trek, Lord of
the Rings and on and on. But it also combines this with an honesty and
an attitude to failure - and success - that is, well, too refreshing
to be described with the cliché of the word "refreshing." Resonant?
I'm not sure that's any better. For one thing, it isn't any kind of
relentless, "Smile or Die" positivism.  He gets pissed off.  He gets
despondent. He doesn't gloss over the occasions when people aren't
nice to him and don't help him even when that results in the picture
we see of him not being flattering.



For me, having made myself self-unemployed and then having nearly gone
totally broke as a result, I can really identify with a lot of what
he's talking about. Let's be clear.  I never missed a meal and I've
never been homeless and for that I am hugely thankful, and embarrassed
to still want to complain.  But man does not live by bread alone and
that became a lot clearer during my period of self-unemployment.



One of the things that I didn't expect about being utterly broke (and
what a nasty surprise it was) was that the most embarrassing and
painful thing about being broke is not having holes in your boxers, or
not being able to buy a coffee at your favourite coffee shop, but not
being able to pay for ceremonies. Weddings, birthday meals, family
trips, visits from family members, for all of these you need money. The pain of that is far more unpleasant than getting a nasty letter from your
credit card company.



There is a section where Wheaton decides that he has to stay in LA and
go to some auditions (because he desperately needs the work) rather
than go on holiday with his family. I feel for him, and I feel for his
wife who's desperately trying to be supportive and understanding, but
who is clearly (as I know mine was) also trying to silence the voice
in her own head which is screaming "Why Are You With This LOSER?"



We all have to try to get over the wreckage of our arrested
development and try to make it into a redeeming feature.  What we're
trying to get over, and how we attempt to do that is a huge part of
who we are. The awful truth, that the self-help books won't tell you,
but the voices that whisper to you when you awake at three in the morning
surely will, is that a lot of us simply never manage it. Wil Wheaton
seems to have managed it, but in a partial, piecemeal way, that makes
it credible and makes this book well worth a read, even
if, like me you hardly seen Star Trek since the 80's went the "real"
one was on and really do think it's "just a TV show."



[1] One of the other voices in my head (hey! I'm not crazy, honest,
where are you going?) Is what the Buddhists call "Monkey Mind" which
whenever I've achieved something (i.e. writing a blog post) tells me
that that's fine but now I've shown I can write, I should write
something else, like a novel, or a screenplay.  "Should" is the
operative and destructive word.  I wrote a blog post once called
"Should-ering to a Halt" which I now can't find.  I try to avoid
"Monkey Mind" by following the advice of Ashtanga yoga guru K.
Pattabhi Jois - practice and all will come.  So I'm not worrying so
much about where this is going, I'm just writing, trying to get what
I'm trying to say out of my head and onto the page.
