
Sat, 12 Jul 2014 12:43:13 

# Marmalade

Marmalade.  That's my name.  Because of the colour I think.  Bright
orange. With just the occasional yellowy fleck.  That's what he tells
them.  Me. The women.  Him and Karem, but she doesn’t count.  Well, I
don't count her.



He doesn't bother me.  He lets me come and go as I please. The flap
and the garden, make this tiny, tiny flat liveable. He feeds me
regularly. Well he does when - let's not dwell on that eh?  He's over
that now I think.



I try to be in when he is.  Actually, I try to make an entrance just
after he gets back from work.  He seems to like that.  It reassures
him. And it reminds him to feed me.  And that routine comforts him.
It's the only time he talks to me. In a silly baby voice. He undoes my
packet.  The little silver pouches I like.  I rub up against his leg.
He puts a ready meal in the microwave.  He watches me eat mine while
his meal dings.  Sometimes he eats it out of the plastic. Some of them
smell so foul when he pierces the film, they make me gag on my chicken
in gravy. Sometimes he east them standing up by the sink.  I can't
tell what he's thinking. But I know he's not happy when he does this.
Sometime he will tip it out on a tray. Put on cutlery and a tea towel
as a napkin, maybe a beer even. It means he has the energy to do the
washing up and that's a good sign - or maybe it means that Karem is
coming in the next day.  She does the washing up for him.  We keep our
distance.



I know you're not supposed to say this, but Karem smells strange. No,
no, pay attention, I didn't say she stank. Really, I'm the farthest
thing you can imagined from a bigot.  And I can eat a dead bird after
a couple of days and keep it down.  This isn't any kind of affectation
of civilisation or nicety.  We simply don't work like that. Really,
from what I've seen, I'm fairly sure you wouldn't understand.  You can
bare manage with each other. I mean. For the love of God, look how he
struggled, struggles. Still struggles.



Where was I? Yes, Karem smells. Not of BO.  Not of Cumin.  Not of fish
sauce (he smells of that sometimes, Jeez Louise!). Not of Garlic. Not
that *she* has any love of animals. I swear. She smells of dark,
unremitting despair. And still that's not the reason I don't like her
- she doesn't like me.  Matter of fact. She hissed at me first. And
also her singing disturbs me.



She truly takes Nietzsche's advice on this one and sings as if no
one's listening. And almost no humans are when she's here on a
Thursday morning.  You'd have to go two flights on the fire escape two
doors along to find old Mr Beakin (asleep probably) everybody else is
at work, work, work. Proper madam though isn't she, letting herself in
with a key, making herself a big pot of his good coffee. Making me
think for a second it's one of his quiet Saturday mornings when it
isn't. Helping herself to a half inch of his brandy.  Washing up
scrupulously to make sure she's undetected.  And then it begins while
she does the dusting.  Always low and full.  Somehow sounding as if it
comes with its own accompaniment. Keening and ululating, even through
the Hoovering.  I hate the sound of the Hoover but it's a relief when
Karem is singing, because it makes it just about makes the sadness
possible to bear.



She's not mine.  He's mine.  And one's enough for any of us, trust me.
But when she's singing like that I can't help thinking - What happened
Karem? Did it happen far away a long time ago?  Or is it happening
now, here in London? Is it still happening.  This big, big sadness,
that makes you smell so strange.



Well, we'd had a good run that summer, I think you could safely say
that.  He had women back to the flat. Sometimes two different ones in
the same week! And he was out some nights mid-week.  Since I've known
him this is pretty much unheard of.  And the whiskey, wanking and
weeping sessions until three in the morning? They seemed to be in
abeyance.  And thank fuck for that.  Talk about not knowing where to
put myself?  Oh right?  I'll just be going out then. And yes, he was
still drinking, but there was a different look on his face.  A
different tilt to his gait.  And he didn't ring her.  Not once.



Then one weekend, we had a proper social whirl.  He had this skinny
thing home Friday night. Who only drank Evian and didn't eat meat, and
didn't really seem to want cheese bread or vegetables either. But
still, seemed to want to stay the night and did.  And then Saturday.
It seemed very hasty and un-planned, as far as I could gather, one
thing leading to another after a supposedly casual coffee. Here she
was in the kitchen, this *not* skinny thing.  Who declared she'd eat
anything, and did.  Especially all the chocolate and red wine he could
give her and some tins of Fois Gras at the back of his cupboard.  On
Tuc biscuits. Voracious. And so *she* stayed the night.



And then Sunday we had a barbecue. Neighbours and people from work.
An actual, flaming barbecue. With sausages, buns and burgers and
relish and Quorn burgers (I rubbed my arse against them when no-one
was looking and tried to look innocent when I got shooed off the
counter).

And everybody got pissed, but in a good way (except Mr Beakin, but
even then he just passed out on the sofa). And
red-wine-chocolates-and-fois-gras lady stayed the night again, though
after having a go, they cheerfully admitted they were both too drunk
to renew relations.  But everybody had fun.  And the place was a mess.



And I did wonder what might happen.  Seeing as he's up and out at 6:30
every work day.  And keeping the place tidy.  Well it's always been a
thing since we've been here. And if the place isn't tidy, well, it's a
bad sign and even though things are going so well, we might be in for
a night of Famous Grouse, Country and Western and DesperateMilfs.com.
But he must have rung, or maybe even texted.  Because around 10, when
I was thinking about going out, the key turned in the lock and it was
Karem.



But changed. I tried not to understand.  We know too much you see.
It's part of the deal, part of how and why it happens.  And I'd known
all along where this was heading. She didn't make herself a coffee.
She poured herself, a huge, undeniably, noticeable brandy.  Looking
out of the French windows into the garden. It had rained overnight and
everything was as they'd left it.  Charcoal ashes were sludge.  Beer
cans. Soggy beer cartons.  A bowl of coleslaw filled with rain.  Then
she hitched her skirts and when out into the garden and tidied.
Hoiking bin bags out through the door until the garden was pristine
again, if a bit flattened.  And then she shut the doors to the garden.
And methodically cleaned the whole of the flat - starting with the
kitchen.  Just like she always did on a Thursday.  But I don't think I
imagined it. This time. More thoroughly.  More definitely.  And she
didn't sing.  Not a single sound. She stayed silent, which made the
Hoovering unbearable.  I had to go outside.



And she never came again.  I didn't hear him saying to anybody why.
Although I think I'd smelled it.  No I never saw her again.  And a few
weeks later a very young Polish girl turned up. She spent the first
twenty minutes trying to figure out how to turn on the telly and from
then on did all her cleaning with a music station on so loud she could
hear it every room while she cleaned.  Matter of fact, it was *so*
loud, even Mr Beakin complained.
