
Sat, 5 Jul 2014 10:33:36 

# My Attempt At Microfiction - Soft-Boiled

Soft-Boiled



The greyish light woke him. He hadn't drawn the curtains.  Another dullish day. He pulled on his clothes - the ones from the
night before.  His favourite cords.  The checked shirt. The t-shirt he
slept in. Coffee.  He needed coffee. Out of the front door the smell
of the sea hit him. It took him only a few minutes to make onto the
front.  That wind in his hair.  A gentle, constant breeze from the
south west - did that mean it was a sou'westerly?  He'd never been
quite sure.



Gayle serving. Hair blue today. "The usual?" Yes.  Good to be a
regular.  He loved this place.  Loved the rumble of it when it was
busy, that rattling from the kitchen when it wasn't. Had no idea how
they managed to produce such an excellent, mood.



She would have been a looker - maybe even a stunner if she'd "kept
herself up, made an effort." As his mum would say. Her clothes weren't dirty exactly, but
they were worn. Jeans worn soft. Top of indiscriminate colour. Hair,
shapeless.  Piercing blue eyes. Mid-twenties, but a lot had obviously
happened.



"You're Ken aren't you?"

He felt like he'd been caught.  Mid-fantasy.

"Er, yes."

"I'm Jackie."

"Oh hi Jackie."



They paused.  She stood awkwardly. Bent over, looking uncomfortable
her left arm, away from him flapping with - she looked embarrassed.
What was this about?



"Won't you sit down." If only to relieve you from standing in that position.

"Oh? Yes, yes, thank you. They said you'd be here - they gave a good
description."

"They?"

"Some people I know - I can't really remember... Kaz.  Kaz was one of them."

A vague impression of a girl he sometimes saw in the Green Grinder
flashed across his mind.  Bright orange hair, shapeless knitted
jumpers DM's, that seemed to fit.  He gave a brief, upward nod of
recognition.

"She said - you help people. Solve mysteries."

Oh fuck.

"It's my gran see? She's gone. Disappeared?"

Christ, yes, sometimes there's an interesting case, but then is it
worth it, having to bat away all the dross?

"Well.  I'm not really sure that...  I mean maybe the social services..."

"No, it's nothing like that.  Trust me.  She's not dotty or anything.
And she ain't committed suicide neither.  There's something else going
on.  Something fishy."

She grabbed hold of his hand -the free one not still hanging onto a
coffee cup - and tilted her head, trying to, he thought, flutter her
eyelashes.  The effect was very disturbing, so much so that he found
himself pulling his hand away.

"Now she was sulky. Police don't want to know, but they - well Kaz - said you might
be interested. I mean I don't want you to do it for free, I've got
money and stuff."  Looking up now.  The blue eyes again.  "Though Kaz
said you probably wouldn't take it..."

Looking at her now, directly.

"I mean - she ain't answering her phone, nor nothing.  And that's not
like her. So we're.  Well it's me really. I'm worried and Kaz said..."

Thanks Kaz.

"Go and give Gayle two quid and tell her to bring me another espresso.
That's my fee.  Take it or leave it. If my terms are acceptable then
you can come back and tell me all about it."

"She was there Tuesday 'cos me and Terry went to see her - she cooks
us tea on Tuesday. Then we normally go round Saturday night - before
we go out out.  Just to sit with her and watch XFactor"

How lovely.

"She was where?"

"Her house. It's on the front. It's a big old house. Too big for her
now. But she don't want to leave 'cos she lived there with granddad.
She'd never leave that house. She loves it."

Well, she has.

"Can you get me in there?"

"Course we can.  I got keys."



Up a steep set of stairs to the living room and the kitchen - someone
else had a flat on the ground floor.  That had him panting slightly -
and might be a bit of a challenge for her - how old was she?  Only in
her mid-sixties.  Only recently retired. May she could run up them.



Jackie took him straight to the kitchen. She'd been doing some
detective work of her own.

"See these tomatoes?" she said, opening the fridge.

"They aren't passed their sell-by date yet. So she must have bought
them Thursday or Friday. 'Cos tomatoes don't last.  I know.  I work in
Sainsbury's.  So she was expecting to stay.  She wasn't planning on
running of or anything. Not nor topping herself.  And if she was going
to top herself, or if she did have a heart attack or something?  Then
why would she take the dog?"



The whole place immaculately clean - furnishings a little
old-fashioned.  Floreat mid-1980's.  Heroines maybe Thatcher and maybe
even Nancy Reagan. Mainly copies of country life in the magazine rack.
With one notable exception.  What the hell happened to this family?
Best probably not to ask.  A clock on the mantel piece. One single
business card behind it. E. Goldfarb. Estate Agent.

"What did you say?"

"What?"

"What did you say just then?"

"Why did she take the dog?"

"The dog's gone?"

"Yes."



He sat down in the big leather chair that wasn't pointed at the TV on
the wall (a very up to date, LCD number) but was pointed instead out
to sea. The channel, gunmetal grey today but still beautiful if you
were a connoisseur of such things.  As he considered himself, and
rather suspected she did. He was surprise to find it reclined,
Lay-Zee-Boy style. He put out his hand to steady himself and rattled a
cordless phone on an occasional table and a magazine, actually a
brochure.  There was still just enough charge in the phone to squeeze
out a last-number redial and to have the necessary brief conversation.



"Gran! What are you like!"

"I don't see what all the fuss is about! I don't have to tell you
where I'm going!"

"But we was worried!"

"Yes, I suppose you were.  I know.  I should have texted you.  But
when I got the idea, when it hit me that the house had sold and I
could actually afford one of these cruises.  I just got seized with
this urge to go and go now. And I was worried if I let anyone know,
they'd somehow talk me out of it.  It was all I could do to get Benjy
in at the kennels and then straight off to Gatwick. And then you had
ME worried - it coming over the ships tannoy that there's a radio
phone call for me from my granddaughter.  You don't want to know what
I imagined had gone wrong. And how did you find me?"



"It's this bloke Kaz knows from the caff - he solves mysteries.
Doesn't look like much."

Thanks.

"But once we got him in your house, it didn't take him three minutes
to figure it out and ring the kennels.  I wouldn't have had time to
boil an egg."
